[MUSIC]
Hello, again in this video, we're gonna
be able to click on our defenders and
place down different defenders where
we want them to be on the grid.
So, let's jump in and get started.
Let's start by taking a look at the
scripts that we'll be using in the next
few videos, and the scripts we
need to make everything work.
We need a Defender Spawner, Star Display,
Defender, and Defender Button.
The Defender Spawner is
gonna be responsible for
storing whoever the defender
is that is being selected.
So whoever is being clicked on,
we need to find the cost
through the Defender Spawner.
Find if we have enough stars.
So we need to make sure
that if the bank is empty,
we don't let people place down a defender.
We need to tell the stars to be spent.
So over in our Star Display, we haven't
created yet, but we will create a script
that will allow us to have a reference for
what the current resources are.
How many money you have in the bank, and
then to answer the question of do you have
enough stars to buy a particular
defender and to spend the stars,.
So therefore to decrease
the number of resources
as well as increasing spend stars and
increase stars.
And then we need a Defender script and
that's gonna provide the cost.
So a cactus costs this amount and
a trophy costs that amount, for example.
And then the Defender Button,
which we've been working on.
This is where we're setting the defender
prefab, so when you click the button,
it says,
this particular defender is the defender.
That's who we're interested
in as their prefab.
Next up, what I'm wanna do is create
a script that says, you're a defender.
So, right click Create > C# script,
which we will call Defender.
We're not going to do a lot in this script
just yet, but I want to have it around.
So, double click to open up in
Visual Studio, I wanna have it around so
that I can be tagging things
as type Defender as well.
That's gonna be very useful, so
we're being specific with the type.
So, in here,
what you will do is straight out, what?
Pretty simple, we're just going to
start by getting rid of our Start and
Update methods, don't need those.
I'll create a SerializedField,
really simply,
integer and we'll call this starCost.
Star is the currency that I'm using,
so you could be coins or moolah or
schmeckles, whatever you want.
StarCost = 100 is how I'll start that off.
So that means for each defender we
can say how many stars they cost.
We'll go back over,
we'll find our trophy and
drag our Defender script onto the trophy.
At the parent level, same with the cactus,
drag our Defender script on to
the parent level of the cactus, okay.
So these are now defenders
through the night for
the fact that they have to Defender class
or Defender script sitting on them.
Next we're gonna jump into
the Defender Button script and
do a little bit of work in here.
First thing we need to do is
create a notion of who is
the prefab you have selected.
At the moment we've got cactus and
trophy, but we need to serializeField and
then I'll type Defender and
that will complete because we've gone and
created type Defender just now
with our class, with our script,
and we will call this
defenderPrefab semicolon.
Save that, now let's go into our
buttons and assign that straight away.
So find Button > Background > cactus.
Now the Cactus has a defender prefab,
let's click on that there and
we will assign cactus and then trophy and
we will assign trophy, there we go.
Okay, so
we've linked the button to the particular
prefab that we have in our folder.
Okay, so save that,
that's all looking pretty good, what next?
Well, let's jump over to
the DefenderSpawner script, and
see what's going on in here.
First of all,
we've got this notion of, previously,
we didn't have a Defender type, so
we're calling things GameObject.
Let's go and change that, so
that they're all Defender where
we're referring to defender.
So this will be defender defender and
also we don't need the serialized
field anymore on the DefenderSpawner
because that is being determined by
what is being clicked on on the buttons.
So we're not gonna let the designer go and
monkey around that.
We'll get rid of the serialized field.
It's just now defender defender,
where else is that gonna be relevant?
Well, let's see where
defender is being called.
And you see we've got the red
squiggly line down here,
it's saying I'm not a game object anymore,
I am a defender.
So defender instantiate,
[SOUND] as defender much more
specific than just saying GameObject.
Okay, it looks pretty good and
I think we're referring to game
object anywhere else, good.
Next we need a way of creating a public
method within the DefenderSpawner,
we say this is who should be selected.
And then within the DefenderButton,
we could then say hey,
I will to select my particular defender
at the thing you should spawn.
So start with the public method in,
DefenderSpawner.
So I'll say public void
SetSelectedDefender and
then we need to pass in of type Defender.
And we'll call this defenderToSelect.
That's the one that somewhere
else is saying, hey select me and
then we have our parentheses.
Now what I'd like for you to do in here is
to just finish off as a little challenge.
Finish off to assign the passed in
defender as the current defender.
So we're pasing in this defenderToSelect,
which will be called in DefenderButton.
We'll say, okay, give us the defender and
then we want to assign that to
the current defender, so pretty simple
just two words and one equal sign.
There's a big hint for you, so
just finish that for me now if you will.
Okay, straightforward so
defender = defenderToSelect.
So, the thing that's getting passed in
is now being assigned to defender and
we'll save that.
Last step in this process,
back to DefenderButton.
We need somewhere in here that we say,
okay,
I would now like to tell
everybody who to spawn.
Who is the selected defender.
So on the OnMouseDown method
right there the very bottom,
underneath GetComponentSpriteRenderer
where we're changing the color to white,
we're gonna be calling
our SetSelectedDefender.
So first of all we need to
FindObjectOfType and the type is what?
It is DefenderSpawner.
That's where we've created our
public method .SetSelectedDefender.
Now, we need to pass something in,
what are we gonna pass in from here?
Well, pretty straightforward,
we're gonna pass in the defenderPrefab.
So we know who the defenderPrefab is,
if this is on the cactus,
the defenderPrefab is the cactus.
So defenderPrefab in here, excellent!
When that's called that will pass it in,
so we know what to spawn.
Now save everything up, if that's all
gone to plan when we click on Play,
we should be able to select the cactus
which has been what we've spawning up
until now, works, and
the trophy, and it works!
Nice and lovely, now one thing you
might have noticed is the trophy
looks a little bit weird, a little bit
strange, it's not in the right spot.
So let's fix that, first of all,
now click on trophy,
my one trophy that I've got in my
world here, have a look at it.
Okay, it looks like when we place it,
there's a bit of an offset, so if I have
this at exactly four and four, you can
see that it's a little bit too high.
So our child object a little bit too high.
Now, here's a really interesting thing,
really interesting problem that we can
create for ourselves with animation
is that when I click on base, I can
move the base up and down, no problem.
I can move it right down and
say yeah that's exactly where I
want the base of my trophy to be.
Now if I click on the top and
move it down,
yeah that's exactly where I want it to be.
Watch what happens when I click play.
The top of the trophy's
gone back up again.
So to make that even clearer,
if I was to drag that way, way, way, way,
way down here, and
I've clicked on the top.
I select the trophy bounce
animation in the animation window.
And scroll through that see it immediately
goes blink run up here already,
[SOUND] straight away because the rotation
we've got in here is relative
to the bases itself.
It's not saying go to a particular
coordinates, so you look at the base you
can drill into it here so we've got
rotation, rotation is saying rotate.
So not saying anything about
where to be on the screen.
However, the position that we've got off
the top is saying on the very first frame
I want you to be whatever this is, 0.48.
And as we scroll through it's saying
I want you now to be at 0.6788.
So, what do we do about that?
How can we move this once we've
created our positional animation.
Well, there's a little technique that took
me forever to find while I was trying to
debug this for you.
If you click on Curves while
we've got your position selected
to the left here,
see how there's this white line?
If you drag that, that will allow you to
drag every single one of your key frames
up or down on that particular parameter or
that particular axis.
So at the moment,
we're exchanging the y position.
If I was to click on x,
then it would move it left and right.
So super handy to know, so
let's find where we want our
animation to be starting.
Just there, if we scrub through
it goes up and then down.
Okay, it still looks like
it's going a bit too high.
Basically, I don't want it overlapping
the top square cuz then we'll get weird
overlapping issues that we don't
really wanna deal with at the moment.
So let's drag the whole thing down and
a little bit to there, bang, and bang.
Yeah, it looks pretty good.
Could probably make this whole
star a little bit smaller,
so I can do that naturally.
I don't have to do that with
animate that with a key frame.
I'll just click on my Scale tool,
make it a little bit smaller, and
now it will retain that,
yeah, that's cool.
Cuz it's changing the position,
that's what's being animated, okay,
up to the top there.
And maybe I'll, how's that look everyone?
Let's see, just have a little look
see at that, make sure it looks okay,
we don't want the star now to be,
yeah, and bam.
Okay, yeah, I'm pretty happy with that.
Okay, so click on Trophy,
apply that to the prefab.
As a final tweak I'm gonna
bring it up a tiny bit bigger.
Yeah, so
it looks a little bit more natural.
I want it to look like it's slamming down,
slam slam.
Okay, good, all done,
excellent, okay, great stuff.
So we can now place our defenders,
we can choose the defender and place them.
Next up we need to start
our resource system so
that our defenders cost points, and
that we can start seeing whether
you have enough points to place
these things down or not.
So great stuff,
I'll see you in the next video.